> A power failure that occurs while a disk block is being written could result in a 
> block being only partially written. Assume that partially written blocks can be 
> detected. An atomic block write is one where either the disk block is fully 
> written or nothing is written (i.e., there are no partial writes). Suggest 
> schemes for getting the effect of atomic block writes with the following RAID 
> schemes. Your schemes should involve work on recovery from failure.
> 
> a. RAID level 1 (mirroring)
> 
> b. RAID level 5 (block interleaved, distributed parity)

--------------------------------

> a. RAID level 1 (mirroring)

To ensure atomicity, a block write operation is carried out as follows: 

1. Write the information onto the first physical block. 
2. When the first write completes successfully, write the same information 
onto the second physical block. 
3. The output is declared completed only after the second write completes 
successfully. 

During recovery, each pair of physical blocks is examined. If both are identical 
and there is no detectable partial-write, then no further actions are necessary. 
If one block has been partially written, then we replace its contents with the contents 
of the other block. If there has been no partial-write, but they differ in content, then we
replace the contents of the first block with the second, or vice versa. This 
recovery procedure ensures that a write to stable storage either succeeeds completely
(that is, updates both copies) or results in no change. 

The requirement of comparing every corresponding pair of blocks during recovery 
is expensive to meet. We can reduce the cost greatly by keeping track of block 
writes that are in progress, using a small amount of nonvolatile RAM. On recovery, 
only blocks for which writes were in progress need to be compared. 

> b. RAID level 5 (block interleaved, distributed parity)

The idea is similar here. For any block write, the information block is written first, 
followed by the corresponding parity block. At the time of recovery, each set consisting
of the $n^{th}$ block of each of the disks is considered. If none of the blocks 
in the set have been partially written, and the parity block contents are consistent
with the contents of the information blocks, the no further action need to be taken. If 
any block has been partially written, its contents are reconstructed using the other blocks.
If no block has been partially written, but the parity block contents do not agree with 
the information block contents, the parity block's contents are reconstructed. 