> The **division operator** of relational algebra, "$\div$" is defined as follows. 
> Let $r(R)$ and $s(S)$ be relations, and let $S \subseteq R$; that is, every attribute
> of schema $S$ is also in schema $R$. Given a tuple $t$, let $t[S]$ denote the projection
> of tuple $t$ on the attributes in $S$. Then $r \div s$ is a relation on schema $R - S$ 
> (that is, on the schema containing all attributes of schema $R$ that are not in schema $S$). 
> A tuple $t$ is in $r \div s$ if and only if both of two conditions hold: 
> * $t$ is in $\Pi_{R-S}(r)$
> * For every tuple $t_s$ in $s$, there is a tuple $t_r$ in $r$ satisfying both of the
> following: <br>
>     a. $t_r[S] = t_s[S]$ <br>
>     b. $t_r[R - S] = t$ <br>
> <br>
> 
> Given the above definition: 
> 
> a. Write a relational algebra expression using the division operator to find 
> the IDs of all students who have taken all Comp. Sci. courses. (Hint: project _takes_ 
> to just ID and _course_id_, and generate the set of all Comp. Sci. _course_id_ s using 
> a select expression, before doing the division.)
> <br> 
> b. Show how to write the above query in relational algebra, without using division. 
> (By doing so, you would have shown how to define the division operation using the other 
> relational algebra operations.) 
 
--------------------------------

a. $\Pi_{ID,course\_id}(takes) \div \Pi_{course\_id}(\sigma_{dept\_name = 'Comp. Sci'}(course))$
<br>
b. The required expression is as follows: 

$$
\begin{aligned}
    r \leftarrow \Pi_{ID,course\_id}(takes) \\\\
    s \leftarrow \Pi_{course\_id}(\sigma_{dept\_name = 'Comp. Sci'}(course)) \\\\
    \Pi_{ID}(takes) - \Pi_{ID}((\Pi_{ID}(takes) \times s) - r)
\end{aligned}
$$

In general, let $r(R)$ and $s(S)$ be given, with $S \subseteq R$. Then we 
can express the division operation using basic relational algebra operations 
as follows: 
$$
    r \div s = \Pi_{R-S}(r) - \Pi_{R-S}((\Pi_{R-S}(r) \times s) - \Pi_{R-S, S}(r))
$$

To see that this expression is true, we observe that $\Pi_{R-S}(r)$ gives us all 
tuples $t$ that satisfy the first condition of the definition of division. The expression
on the right side of the set difference operator
$
    \Pi_{R-S}((\Pi_{R-S}(r) \times s) - \Pi_{R-S, S}(r))
$
serves to eliminate those tuples that fail to satisfy the second condition of the 
definition of division. Let us see how it does so. Consider $\Pi_{R-S}(r) \times s$.
This relation is on schema $R$, and pairs every tuple in $\Pi_{R-S}(r)$ with 
every tuple in $s$. The expression $\Pi_{R-S,S}(r)$ merely reorders the attributes 
of $r$. 

Thus, $(\Pi_{R-S}(r) \times s) - \Pi_{R-S, S}(r)$ gives us those pairs of tuples
from $\Pi_{R-S}(r)$ and $s$ that do not appear in $r$. If a tuple $t_j$ is in 
$
    \Pi_{R-S}((\Pi_{R-S}(r) \times s) - \Pi_{R-S, S}(r))
$
then there is some tuple $t_s$ in $s$ that does not combine with tuple $t_j$
to form a tuple in $r$. Thus, $t_j$ holds a value for attributes $R - S$ that does
not appear in $r \div s$. It is these values that we eliminate from $\Pi_{R-S}(r)$. 
