> What is an SQL injection attack? Explain how it works and what precautions 
> must be taken to prevent SQL injection attacks. 

--------------------------------

SQL injection attack is a type of attack, where the attacker manages to get 
an application to execute an SQL query created by the attacker. 

The following paragraphs are from the book _"SQL injection attacks and defense"_ 
by _Justin Clarke_. 

SQL injection is an attack in which SQL code is inserted or appended into 
application/user input parameters that are later passed to a back-end 
SQL server for parsing and execution. Any procedure that constructs SQL 
statements could potentially be vulnerable, as the diverse nature of 
SQL and the methods available for constructing it provide a wealth of 
coding options. The primary form of SQL injection consists of direct 
insertion of code into parameters that are concatenated with SQL commands
and executed. A less direct attack injects malicious code into strings
that are destined for storage in a table or as metadata. When the stored 
strings are subsequently concatenated into a dynamic SQL command, the malicious
code is executed. When a Web application fails to properly sanitize the 
parameters which are passed to dynamically created SQL statements (even when 
using parameterization techniques) it is possible for an attacker to alter 
the construction of back-end SQL statements. 

SQL injection vulnerabilities most commonly occur when the Web application 
developer does not ensure that values received from a Web form, cookie, 
input parameter, and so forth are validated before passing them to SQL 
queries that will be executed on a database server. If an attacker can 
control the input that is sent to an SQL query and manipulate that input 
so that the data is interpreted as code instead of as data, the attacker may 
be able to execute code on the back-end database. 

Precautions that must be taken to prevent SQL injection attacks: 
* Use prepared statements. 
* Correctly handle errors, so as not to give valuable information (such 
as database version, operating system version) to attackers. 
* Encrypt sensitive attributes of relations (to mitigate the attack)
* Use white-listing approach to validate input. The white-list approach to 
validating input is to create a list of all possible characters that should
be allowed for a given input, and to deny anything else. 
* Applications should use different database users to perform SELECT, 
UPDATE, INSERT, and similar commands. In the event of an attacker 
injecting code into a vulnerable statement, the privileges afforded 
would be minimized. 
