> Suppose you are given a relation _grade_points(<u>grade</u>, points)_ that provides
> a conversion from letter grades in the _takes_ relation to numeric scores; for example, 
> an "A" grade could be specified to correspond to 4 points, an "A-" to 3.7 points, 
> a "B+" to 3.3 points, a "B" to 3 points and so on. The grade points earned by a 
> student for a course offering (section) is defined as the number of credits for 
> the course multiplied by the numeric points for the grade that the student received. 
> 
> Given the preceding relation and our university schema, write each of the following 
> queries in SQL. You may assume for simplicity that no _takes_ tuple has the _null_
> value for _grade_. <br>
> a. Find the total grade points earned by the student with ID '12345', across
> all courses taken by the student. <br>
> b. Find the grade point average (GPA) for the above student, that is, the total 
> grade points divided by the total credits for the associated courses. <br>
> c. Find the ID and the grade-point average of each student. <br>
> d. Now reconsider your answers to the earlier parts of this exercise under the assumption
> that some grades might be null. Explain whether your solutions still work and, if not, 
> provide versions that handle nulls properly. <br>

--------------------------------

a. Find the total grade points earned by the student with ID '12345', across
all courses taken by the student.

```sql 
SELECT SUM(c.credits * g.points)
FROM takes AS t 
    INNER JOIN course AS c ON t.course_id = c.course_id
    INNER JOIN grade_points AS g ON t.grade = g.grade
WHERE t.ID = '12345'
```

In the above query, a student who has not taken any course would not
have any tuples, whereas we would expect to get 0 as the answer. One 
way of fixing this problem is to use the **outer join** operation, which 
we study later in Chapter 4. Another way to ensure that we get 0 as the answer 
is via the following query: 

```sql
(
SELECT SUM(c.credits * g.points)
FROM takes AS t 
    INNER JOIN course AS c ON t.course_id = c.course_id
    INNER JOIN grade_points AS g ON t.grade = g.grade
WHERE t.ID = '12345'
)
UNION 
(
SELECT 0
FROM student 
WHERE ID = '12345' AND NOT EXISTS (SELECT * FROM takes WHERE ID = '12345')
)
```

b. Find the grade point average (GPA) for the above student, that is, the total 
grade-points divided by the total credits for the associated courses.

```sql 
SELECT SUM(c.credits * g.points) / SUM(credits) AS GPA
FROM takes AS t 
    INNER JOIN course AS c ON t.course_id = c.course_id
    INNER JOIN grade_points AS g ON t.grade = g.grade
WHERE t.ID = '12345'
```

As before, a student who has not taken any course would not appearn in the 
above result; we can ensure that such a stuent appears in the result by 
using the modified query from the previous part of this question. However, 
an additional issue in this case is that the sum of credits would also be 0, 
resulting in a divide-by-zero condition. In fact, the only meaningful way of 
defining the GPA in this case is to define it as _null_. We can ensure that 
such a student appears in the result with a null _GPA_ by adding the following
**union** clause to the above query. 

```sql
UNION 
(
    SELECT null AS GPA 
    FROM student 
    WHERE ID = '12345' AND 
        NOT EXISTS (SELECT * FROM takes WHERE ID='12345')
)
```

c. Find the ID and the grade-point average of each student.

```sql 
SELECT t.ID, SUM(c.credits * g.points) / SUM(credits) AS GPA
FROM takes AS t 
    INNER JOIN course AS c ON t.course_id = c.course_id
    INNER JOIN grade_points AS g ON t.grade = g.grade
GROUP BY t.ID
```

Again, to handle students who have not taken any course, we would have
to add the following **union** clause:

```sql 
UNION 
(
    SELECT ID, null AS GPA 
    FROM student 
    WHERE NOT EXISTS (SELECT * FROM takes WHERE takes.ID = student.ID)
)
```

d. Now reconsider your answers to the earlier parts of this exercise under the assumption
that some grades might be null. Explain whether your solutions still work and, if not, 
provide versions that handle nulls properly.

<br>

The queries listed above all include a test of equality on _grade_ between
_grade_points_ and _takes_. Thus, for any _takes_ tuple with a _null_ grade, 
that student's course would be eliminated from the rest of the computation 
of the result. As a result, the credits of such courses would be eliminated 
also, and thus the queries would return the correct answer even if some grades
are null. 
