> Show that the decomposition in Exercise 7.1 is not a dependency-preserving 
> decomposition.

--------------------------------

There are several functional dependencies that are not preserved. We discuss 
one example here. The dependency $B \rightarrow D$ is not preserved. $F_1$, 
the restriction of $F$ to $(A, B, C)$ is $A \rightarrow ABC, A \rightarrow AB,$
$A \rightarrow AC, A \rightarrow BC, A \rightarrow B, A \rightarrow C, A \rightarrow A,
B \rightarrow B, C \rightarrow C, AB \rightarrow AC, AB \rightarrow ABC, AB \rightarrow BC,
AB \rightarrow AB, AB \rightarrow A, AB \rightarrow B, AB \rightarrow C, 
AC (\text{same as } AB), BC (\text{same as } AB), ABC (\text{same as } AB)$.
$F_2$, the restriction of $F$ to $(A,D,E)$ is $A \rightarrow ADE, A \rightarrow AD, 
A \rightarrow AE, A \rightarrow DE, A \rightarrow A, A \rightarrow D, A \rightarrow E, 
D \rightarrow D, E (\text{same as } A), AD, AE, DE, ADE (\text{same as } A).
$

$(F_1 \cup F_2)^+$ is easily seen not to contain $B \rightarrow D$ since the only FD 
in $F_1 \cup F_2$ with $B$ as the left side is $B \rightarrow B$, a trivial FD. 
Thus $B \rightarrow D$ is not preserved. 

A simpler argument is as follows: $F_1$ contains no dependencies with $D$ on the right 
side of the arrow. $F_2$ contains no dependencies with $B$ on the left side of the arrow. 
Therefore for $B \rightarrow D$ to be preserved there must be a functional dependency 
$B \rightarrow \alpha$ in $F_1^+$ and $\alpha \rightarrow D$ in $F_2^+$ (so 
$B \rightarrow D$ would follow by transitivity). Since the intersection of the two schemas 
is $A$, $\alpha = A$. Observe that $B \rightarrow A$ is not in $F_1^+$ since 
$B^+ = BD$. 