> Show that it is possible to ensure that a dependency-preserving decomposition
> into 3NF is a lossless decomposition by guaranteeing that at least one schema 
> contains a candidate key for the schema being decomposed. (Hint: Show that 
> the join of all the projections onto the schemas of the decomposition cannot 
> have more tuples than the original relation.)

--------------------------------

Let $F$ be a set of functional dependencies that hold on a schema $R$. Let 
$\sigma = \{R_1, R_2, ..., R_n\}$ be a dependency-preserving 3NF decomposition of 
$R$. Let $X$ be a candidate key for $R$. 

Consider a legal instance $r$ of $R$. Let 
$j = \Pi_X(r) \bowtie \Pi_{R_1}(r) \bowtie \Pi_{R_2}(r) ... \bowtie \Pi_{R_n}(r)$. We 
want to prove that $r = j$. 

We claim that if $t_1$ and $t_2$ are two tuples in $j$ such that $t_1[X] = t_2[X]$, then
$t_1 = t_2$. To prove this claim, we use the following inductive argument: 
Let $F' = F_1 \cup F_2 \cup ... \cup F_n$, where each $F_i$ is the restriction of $F$ to 
the schema $R_i$ in $\sigma$. Consider the use of the algorithm in Figure 7.8 to compute
the closure of $X$ under $F'$. We use induction on the number of times that the _for_
loop in the algorithm is executed. 

* _Basis_: In the first step of the algorithm, _result_ is assigned to _X_, and hence 
given that $t_1[X] = t_2[X]$, we know that $t_1[\text{result}] = t_2[\text{result}]$
is true. 

* _Induction Step_: Let $t_1[\text{result}] = t_2[\text{result}]$ be true at the end of 
the _k_ th execution of the _for_ loop.  Suppose the functional dependency considered in 
the _k + 1_ th execution of the _for_ loop is $\beta \rightarrow \gamma$, and that 
$\beta \subseteq \text{result}$. $\beta \subseteq \text{result}$ implies that 
$t_1[\beta] = t_2[\beta]$ is true. The facts that $\beta \rightarrow \gamma$ holds for 
some attribute set $R_i$ in $\sigma$ and that $t_1[R_i]$ and $t_2[R_i]$ are in 
$\Pi_{R_i}(r)$ imply that $t_1[\gamma] = t_2[\gamma]$ is also true. Since $\gamma$ is now 
added to _result_ by the algorithm, we know that $t_1[\text{result}] = t_2[\text{result}]$ 
is true at the end of the _k + 1_ th execution of the _for_ loop. 

Since $\sigma$ is dependency-preserving and $X$ is a key for $R$, all attributes in $R$ 
are in _result_ when the algorithm terminates. Thus, $t_1[R] = t_2[R]$ is true, that is, 
$t_1 = t_2$    - as claimed earlier. 

Our claim implies that the size of $\Pi_X(j)$ is equal to the size of $j$. Note also 
that $\Pi_X(j) = \Pi_X(r) = r$ (since $X$ is a key for $R$). Thus we have proved that the 
size of $j$ equals the size of $r$. Using the result of Exercise 7.12, we know that 
$r \subseteq j$. Hence we conclude that $r = j$. 

Note that since $X$ is trivially in 3NF, $\sigma \cup \{X\}$ is a dependency-preserving
lossless decomposition into 3NF. 
