> Let a **prime** attribute be one that appears in at least one candidate key. 
> Let $\alpha$ and $\beta$ be sets of attributes such that $\alpha \rightarrow \beta$
> holds, but $\beta \rightarrow \alpha$ does not hold. Let $A$ be an attribute that is 
> not in $\alpha$, is not in $\beta$, and for which $\beta \rightarrow A$ holds. We say
> that $A$ is **transitively dependent** on $\alpha$. We can restate the definition 
> of 3NF as follows: A relation schema $R$ is in 3NF with respect to a set $F$ of functional 
> dependencies if there are no nonprime attributes $A$ in $R$ for which $A$ is transitively
> dependent on a key for $R$. Show that this new definition is equivalent to the original one.  

--------------------------------

Suppose $R$ is in 3NF according to the textbook definition. We show that it is in 
3NF according to the definition in the exercise. Let $A$ be a nonprime attribute 
in $R$ that is transitively dependent on a key $\alpha$ for $R$. Then there exists
$\beta \subseteq R$ such that $\beta \rightarrow A$, $\alpha \rightarrow \beta$, 
$A \not\in \alpha, A \not\in \beta$, and $\beta \rightarrow \alpha$ does not hold. 
But then $\beta \rightarrow A$ violates the textbook definition of 3NF since 

* $A \not\in \beta$ implies $\beta \rightarrow A$ is nontrivial.
* Since $\beta \rightarrow \alpha$ does not hold, $\beta$ is not a superkey.
* $A$ is not in any candidate key, since $A$ is nonprime. 

Now we show that if $R$ is in 3NF according to the exercise definition, it is in 3NF 
according to the textbook definition. Suppose $R$ is not in 3NF according to the textbook 
definition. Then there is a functional dependency $\alpha \rightarrow \beta$ that fails all 
three conditions. Thus, 

* $\alpha \rightarrow \beta$ is nontrivial. 
* $\alpha$ is not a superkey for $R$. 
* Some $A$ in $\beta - \alpha$ is not in any candidate key. 

This implies that $A$ is nonprime and $\alpha \rightarrow A$. Let $\gamma$ be a 
candidate key for $R$. Then $\gamma \rightarrow \alpha, \alpha \rightarrow \gamma$
does not hold (since $\alpha$ is not a superkey), $A \not\in \alpha$, and $A \not\in \gamma$
(since $A$ is nonprime). Thus $A$ is transitively dependent on $\gamma$, violating the 
exercise definition. 