> Consider the following set $F$ of functional dependencies on the relation 
> schema $(A, B, C, D, E, G)$: 
> 
> $$
> A \rightarrow BCD \\
> BC \rightarrow DE \\
> B \rightarrow D \\
> D \rightarrow A \\
> $$
> 
> a. Compute $B^+$.
> 
> b. Prove (using Armstrong's axioms) that $AG$ is a superkey. 
> 
> c. Compute a canonical cover for this set of functional dependencies $F$; give
> each step of your derivation with an explanation. 
> 
> d. Give a 3NF decomposition of the given schema based on a canonical cover. 
> 
> e. Give a BCNF decomposition of the given schema using the original set $F$ 
> of functional dependencies. 

--------------------------------

> a. Compute $B^+$.

$B^+ = \{A, B, C, D, E\}$

> b. Prove (using Armstrong's axioms) that $AG$ is a superkey. 

$A \rightarrow BCD$ holds (given). 

By **Decomposition rule** (I know that Decomposition rule is not one of 
Armstrong's axioms, but since I have proved it in Exercise 7.27 using Armstrong's
axioms I think it is okay to use it here.)

$A \rightarrow BC$ holds (Decomposition rule). 

$BC \rightarrow DE$ holds (given). 

By **Transitivity rule** $A \rightarrow DE$ holds. 

Thus, $A \rightarrow BCDE$ holds by **Union rule** (see Exercise 7.4).

By **Augmentation rule** $AG \rightarrow ABCDEG$.

This proves that $AG$ is a superkey. 

> c. Compute a canonical cover for this set of functional dependencies $F$; give
> each step of your derivation with an explanation.

Apply algorithm given in Figure 7.9. 

$D$ is extraneous in $A \rightarrow BCD$ so, remove it.

$D$ is also extraneous in $BC \rightarrow DE$ so, remove it.

Thus the following is a canonical cover of $F$.

$$
A \rightarrow BC \\
BC \rightarrow E \\
B \rightarrow D \\
D \rightarrow A \\
$$

> d. Give a 3NF decomposition of the given schema based on a canonical cover. 

The following is a 3NF decomposition of the given schema based on a canonical cover 
given above.

$$
\{ \{A,B,C\}, \{B,C,E\}, \{B,D\}, \{D,A\}, \{A,G\}\}
$$

> e. Give a BCNF decomposition of the given schema using the original set $F$ 
> of functional dependencies. 

$$
\{ \{A,B,C\}, \{B,D\}, \{A, E\}, \{A,G\}\}
$$