> Consider the schema $R = (A,B,C,D,E,G)$ and the set $F$ of functional 
> dependencies: 
> $$
> A \rightarrow BC \\
> BD \rightarrow E \\ 
> CD \rightarrow AB \\
> $$
> 
> a. Find a nontrivial functional dependency containing no extraneous 
> attributes that is logically implied by the above three dependencies 
> and explain how you found it. 
> 
> b. Use the BCNF decomposition algorithm to find a BCNF decomposition 
> of $R$. Start with $A \rightarrow BC$. Explain your steps. 
> 
> c. For your decomposition, state whether it is lossless and explain why. 
> 
> d. For your decomposition, state whether it is a dependency preserving 
> and explain why. 

--------------------------------

> a. Find a nontrivial functional dependency containing no extraneous 
> attributes that is logically implied by the above three dependencies 
> and explain how you found it. 

I claim that such a functional dependency does **NOT** exist. Suppose 
to the contrary that such a functional dependency exists. Say 
$\alpha \rightarrow \beta$. Thus $\alpha \rightarrow \beta$ is a nontrivial 
functional dependency containing no extraneous attributes and it is logically
implied by $F$. Define $F_1 := F \cup \{ \alpha \rightarrow \beta \}$.
Now consider an attribute $X \in \beta$. I am going to prove that $X$ is extraneous. 

Consider the set 

$$
F_1' = (F_1 - \{\alpha \rightarrow \beta\}) \cup \{\alpha \rightarrow (\beta - X)\}
$$

Since the functional dependency $\alpha \rightarrow X$ can be inferred from $F_1'$
(in fact the whole $\alpha \rightarrow \beta$ can be inferred from $F \subset F_1'$)
$X$ is extraneous in $\beta$. 

Thus such a functional dependency does **NOT** exist. 

> b. Use the BCNF decomposition algorithm to find a BCNF decomposition 
> of $R$. Start with $A \rightarrow BC$. Explain your steps. 

We use the algorithm given on Figure 7.11. 

By using the functional dependency $A \rightarrow BC$ we decompose the schema into 

$$
\{ \{A, D, E, G\}, \{A, B, C\} \}
$$

Note that $\{A, B, C\}$ is in BCNF. By applying **Augmentation rule** followed by 
**Transitivity rule** on the functional dependencies given in $F$, we see that 
the functional dependency $AD \rightarrow E$ holds. We use that to decompose the schema
$\{A, D, E, G\}$, into $ \{A, D, G\} $ and $ \{A, D, E\} $. 

Thus, 

$$
\{ \{A, D, G\}, \{A, D, E\}, \{A, B, C\} \}
$$

form a BCNF decomposition of $R$. 

> c. For your decomposition, state whether it is lossless and explain why.

The decomposition that the algorithm given on Figure 7.11 generates is always 
a lossless decomposition. Thus our decomposition is a lossless decomposition. 

> d. For your decomposition, state whether it is a dependency preserving 
> and explain why. 

Our decomposition is **not** dependency preserving. The functional dependency 
$BD \rightarrow E$ is not preserved (we used the second test given in section 7.4.4)