> Consider the schema $R = (A, B, C, D, E, G)$ and the set $F$ of functional 
> dependencies: 
> 
> $$
> AB \rightarrow CD  \\
> ADE \rightarrow GDE  \\
> B \rightarrow GC  \\
> G \rightarrow DE \\
> $$
> 
> Use the 3NF decomposition algorithm to generate a 3NF decomposition of $R$, 
> and show your work. This means: 
> 
> a. A list of all candidate keys. 
> 
> b. A canonical cover for $F$, along with an explanation of the steps you took 
> to generate it. 
> 
> c. The remaining steps of the algorithm, with explanation. 
> 
> d. The final decomposition. 

--------------------------------

> a. A list of all candidate keys. 

$
(AB)^+ = \{A, B, C, D, E, G\} = R \\
(A)^+ = \{A\} \not= R \\ 
(B)^+ = \{B, C, D, E, G\} \not= R \\ 
$

Therefore, $AB$ is a _candidate key_ (minimal superkey). 

$
(ADE)^+ = \{A, D, E, G\} \not= R \\
(G)^+ = \{D, E, G\} \not= R \\ 
$

I think $AB$ is the only _candidate key_. 

TODO: Prove it!

> b. A canonical cover for $F$, along with an explanation of the steps you took 
> to generate it. 

We use the algorithm given on Figure 7.9. 

Set $F_c = F = \{AB \rightarrow CD, ADE \rightarrow GDE, B \rightarrow GC, G \rightarrow DE\}$. 

Use the **union rule** to replace any dependencies in $F_c$ of the form 
$\alpha_1 \rightarrow \beta_1$ and $\alpha_1 \rightarrow \beta_2$ with 
$\alpha_1 \rightarrow \beta_1\beta_2$. 

But looking at the functional dependencies given in $F_c$ we see that 
there are no such dependencies. 

Now, we find a functional dependency $\alpha \rightarrow \beta$  in $F_c$ 
with an extraneous attribute either in $\alpha$ or in $\beta$. If an 
extraneous attribute is found, we delete it from $\alpha \rightarrow \beta$ 
in $F_c$. We continue this iteration until $F_c$ does not change. 

Looking at the functional dependency $AB \rightarrow CD$ we see that $C$ 
is extraneous. Since the functional dependency $B \rightarrow C$ can be
inferred from the functional dependency $(B \rightarrow GC) \in F_c$ by the 
**Decomposition rule**. 

So the current state of $F_c$ looks like:-

$$
F_c = \{AB \rightarrow D, ADE \rightarrow GDE, B \rightarrow GC, G \rightarrow DE\}
$$

We see that $E$ on the right hand side of the functional dependency $ADE \rightarrow GDE$
is extraneous. So let's delete that one. Then $F_c$ becomes:-

$$
F_c = \{AB \rightarrow D, ADE \rightarrow GD, B \rightarrow GC, G \rightarrow DE\}
$$

Attribute $D$ on the right hand side of the functional dependency $ADE \rightarrow GD$
is also extraneous. So $F_c$ becomes:-

$$
F_c = \{AB \rightarrow D, ADE \rightarrow G, B \rightarrow GC, G \rightarrow DE\}
$$

By using the functional dependencies $B \rightarrow GC, G \rightarrow DE$ and 
**Decomposition rule** followed by **Transitivity rule**, it can be shown that 
$B \rightarrow D$ holds. Thus we can delete the functional dependency $AB \rightarrow D$. 

$$
F_c = \{ADE \rightarrow G, B \rightarrow GC, G \rightarrow DE\}
$$

Since we can not find any other extraneous attributes, we claim that $F_c$ is a canonical 
cover for $F$. 

> c. The remaining steps of the algorithm, with explanation. 

Define $F_c := \{ADE \rightarrow G, B \rightarrow GC, G \rightarrow DE\}$

Define <br>
$R_1 := \{A, D, E, G\}$ <br>
$R_2 := \{B, C, G\}$ <br>
$R_3 := \{D, E, G\}$ <br>

We see that none of the schemas $R_i \:\: \forall i, 1 \leq i \leq 3$ contains a 
candidate key. Thus we define $R_4$ as:

$R_4 := \{A, B\}$ 

Then we delete $R_3$ since $R_3 \subseteq R_1$. 

Thus the follwing is a 3NF decomposition of our schema $R$. 

$$
\{R_1, R_2, R_4\} = \{\{A, D, E, G\}, \{B, C, G\}, \{A, B\}\}
$$

> d. The final decomposition. 

$$
\{\{A, D, E, G\}, \{B, C, G\}, \{A, B\}\}
$$