> Consider the star schema from Figure 11.2. Suppose an analyst finds that monthly
> total sales (sum of the _price_ values of all _sales_ tuples) have decreased, 
> instead of growing, from April 2018 to May 2018. The analyst wishes to check if there 
> are specific item categories, stores, or customer countries that are responsible 
> for the decrease. 
> 
> a. What are the aggregates that the analyst would start with, and what are the 
> relevant drill-down operations that the analyst would need to execute? 
> 
> b. Write an SQL query that shows the item categories that were responsible 
> for the decrease in sales, ordered by the impact of the category on the sales 
> decrease, with categories that had the highest impact sorted first. 

--------------------------------

> a. What are the aggregates that the analyst would start with, and what are the 
> relevant drill-down operations that the analyst would need to execute?

For each **item category** the analyst should look at how much income was generated in 
April 2018 and May 2018 by that item category. The item category/categories that shows 
huge decrease is responsible for the overall income decrease. 

For each **store** the analyst should look at how much income was generated in April 
2018 and May 2018 by that **store**. The store that shows huge decrease is responsible for 
the overall income decrease. 

For each **customer country** the analyst should look at how much income was generated in 
April 2018 and May 2018 from that **country**. The country that shows decrease is responsible 
for the overall income decrease. 

> b. Write an SQL query that shows the item categories that were responsible 
> for the decrease in sales, ordered by the impact of the category on the sales 
> decrease, with categories that had the highest impact sorted first. 

```sql 
WITH category_sale_2018(category, month, price) AS (
    SELECT item_info.category, date_info.month, SUM(price)
    FROM sales 
        INNER JOIN item_info ON (sales.item_id = item_info.item_id)
        INNER JOIN date_info ON (sales.date = date_info.date)
    WHERE date_info.month IN ('April', 'May') AND date_info.year = 2018
    GROUP BY item_info.category, date_info.month
), x(category, april2018, may2018) AS ( 
    SELECT t.category, 
        (
            SELECT price
            FROM category_sale_2018 AS t2
            WHERE t2.category = t.category AND t2.month = 'April'
        ) AS april2018, 
        (
            SELECT price
            FROM category_sale_2018 AS t3
            WHERE t3.category = t.category AND t3.month = 'May'
        ) AS may2018, 
    FROM category_sale_2018 as t
)
SELECT category, april2018, may2018, (may2018 - april2018) AS impact
FROM x
ORDER BY impact ASC;
```