> Write pseudocode for an iterator that implements a version of the sort-merge algorithm 
> where the result of the final merge is pipelined to its consumers. Your pseudocode must 
> define the standard iterator functions _open()_, _next()_, and _close()_. Show what 
> state information the iterator must maintain between calls. 

--------------------------------

Let $M$ denote the number of blocks in the main memory buffer available for sorting, that 
is, the number of disk blocks whose contents can be buffered in available main memory. 

Let $r$ be the relation that we want to sort. Let $rIter$ be the iterator which returns $M$
blocks of the relation $r$, or the rest of the relation, whichever is smaller. 

The iterator $rIter$, an integer representing the number of runs that are created $i$ and pointers 
$p_j$ s $\text{for} \quad 0 \leq j < i$ are the state information which need to be 
remembered by **SortMerge** between calls. 

## SortMerge::open()

1. $rIter$.open();
2. $i = 0$; 
3. **while** ($rIter$.next() $\neq$ false)
    1. move the $M$ blocks of memory (or less), from $rIter$'s output buffer to a variable $x$. 
    2. sort the in-memory part of the relation (i.e., $x$). 
    3. write the sorted data to run file $R_i$. 
    4. define $p_i$ to be a pointer to the first tuple in $R_i$. 
    5. $i = i + 1$

## boolean SortMerge::next()

1. **if** ($\exists p_j \neq \text{null} \quad \text{for} \quad 0 \leq j < i$)
    1. choose the first tuple (in sort order) among those pointed by $p_j$ s.
    2. write the tuple to the output and increment the $p_j$ that points to it. 
    3. return _true_;
2. return _false_;  

## SortMerge::close()

1. $rIter$.close(); 

If you want to work on a similar question, check out: 15.7.